Jeanne du Barry is an upcoming French biographical drama film written, directed and produced by Maïwenn and starring herself and Johnny Depp in the leading roles. It also stars Pierre Richard, Benjamin Lavernhe Noémie Lvovsky, Pascal Greggory, Melvil Poupaud and India Hair. Its plot centres on Madame du Barry, who uses her intelligence and allure to climb the social ladder. She becomes King Louis XV's favourite, they fall in love and against all propriety and etiquette, du Barry moves to Versailles, where her arrival scandalises the court. 
Jeanne du Barry is produced by Why Not Productions and Depp's IN.2 film, a European sister company to his L.A.-based Infinitum Nihil and is distributed by Le Pacte. With its budget of $22.4 million, Jeanne du Barry was one of the most expensive French films of 2022, being one of only three French films with a budget of over 10 million euros. The film is set to have its world premiere as the opening film at the 2023 Cannes Film Festival on May 16, 2023, being theatrically released in France on the same day by Le Pacte, before its streaming release 15 months afterwards on Netflix in France.


== Premise ==
Jeanne, a young working-class woman hungry for culture and pleasure, uses her intelligence and allure to climb the rungs of the social ladder one by one. She becomes the favourite of King Louis XV who, unaware of her status as courtesan, regains through her his appetite for life. They fall madly in love and, against all propriety and etiquette, Jeanne moves to Versailles, where her arrival scandalizes the court.


== Cast ==
Maïwenn as Madame du Barry
Johnny Depp as Louis XV
Pierre Richard
Noémie Lvovsky
Benjamin Lavernhe
Melvil Poupaud
Pascal Greggory
India Hair


== Production ==


=== Development ===
In an interview with Harper's Bazaar France, Maïwenn revealed that she had been wanting to direct a movie about Madame du Barry since 2006, after seeing Sofia Coppola's film Marie Antoinette. She was particularly drawn to the character of Madame du Barry, played by Asia Argento, and soon after, started reading biographies about her. For the next ten years, Maïwenn played with the idea of one day directing a period film, whose protagonist would be Madame du Barry, remaining still very unsure about it, fearing that she wouldn't be able to properly capture a film which would be comparable to others made on the subject. After reading many biographies about du Barry and watching a lot of period films such as Stanley Kubrik's Barry Lyndon, Sofia Coppola's Marie Antoinette and Albert Serra's The Death of Louis XIV, Maïwenn started creating the outline for her own film. She reached the conclusion that something which all of these three movies, which she loves, have in common, is that they are not very talkative.Maïwenn wrote the film with a French actor in mind, whose name she did not disclose, presented the script to him and waited three years for a response. He declined in a matter of minutes, claiming, according to Maïwenn, that "cinema is dead" and that there was "only Netflix left". She then proposed the role to another French actor, whose health problems prevented him from being able to play the role. After this dissapointment, Maïwenn was advised to create a list of actors she loves, no matter the origin. She, thus, did so, and the first actor on the list was an American, who seemed accessible to her, but was not interested. The second actor on that list was Johnny Depp, who was sent the script at a time when Maïwenn had lost hope that the project would materialise.She first approached Johnny Depp and offered him the role of Louis XV before Christmas, in 2019. Without having read the script himself, Depp agreed immediately, after his assistant and friend, Stephen Deuters, who is also a screenwriter and producer, read it and fell in love with it. After losing his libel trial against The Sun, in November 2020, Maïwenn was unsure whether Depp would still be on board for the project. She contacted him and found out that he was fearing that she would not want him in the film, after the outcome of the trial. Maïwenn reassured him that the film would not continue without him, and that he was the only person, in her view, who could play the role.In January 2022, it was officially announced that Johnny Depp was cast as King Louis XV in the drama. In May 2022, Louis Garrel, Pierre Richard, and Noémie Lvovsky were cast in undisclosed roles, while Wild Bunch sold the film for distribution during the 2022 Cannes Film Festival. By July 2022, the film, was revealed to have been acted in French, with Netflix handling distribution in France and Benjamin Lavernhe, Melvil Poupaud, Pascal Greggory, and India Hair were cast.


=== Filming ===
Principal photography commenced on July 26, 2022, in Versailles and other regions of Paris, for 11 weeks. On August 10, 2022, the first teaser image of Depp in the role of Louis XV was shared by Why Not Productions. Filming wrapped in mid-October 2022. On November 1, 2022, Wild Bunch International unveiled the key territories which had acquired rights for the drama. Another image of Depp in the role was shared on the same day. Maïwenn gave her first interview about the movie to Le Journal de Dimanche on December 31, 2022. In it, she mentions that her staging for the film "is neither pop nor rock", unlike Sofia Coppola's Marie Antoinette, but that she has indeed taken liberties with it and that she is expecting "purists" to criticise her. She further commented on Depp's ability to transform into a character, calling him "a real chameleon" who really likes transformation. Regarding the dialogue and the fact that Depp acted for the first time in French, Maïwenn commented that her film is not very talkative and that Depp's expressiveness was highly impressive to her, likening it to that of a silent film actor's.For the first time in her career, Maïwenn decided to use 35 Millimeter film cameras to shoot a motion picture, using Stanley Kubrick’s film Barry Lyndon as a template for what she wanted to achieve visually. Directing the film while also playing the role of one of its protagonists, Madame du Barry, was challenging for Maïwenn, who decided, at the end of shooting, that she would never again act in a film that she is directing.


=== Financing and budget ===
In early January 2023, it was announced that the Red Sea Film Foundation was financially backing the film, with Saudi film producer and CEO of the foundation Mohammed Al Turki complementing the film and stating that it is an "incredibly unique and ambitious biographical feature and a testament to our commitment to supporting new talent and collaborating with world-class writers, directors and producers".On March 30, 2023, it was announced that Jeanne Du Barry was part of 33% of all the approved FIF films in 2022, which were either directed or co-directed by a woman and that it was one of only three French films with a budget of over 10 million euros. The budget of the film was announced to have been $22.4 million.


== Release ==
On April 5, 2023, it was officially announced that Jeanne du Barry would have its world premiere as the opening film at the 2023 Cannes Film Festival on May 16, 2023, before being theatrically released in France on the same day.  When asked about his decision to choose Jeanne du Barry as the opening film at the festival, during an interview with Deadline on April 13, 2023, Cannes Festival Director and French film critic Thierry Frémaux responded by saying that it is a "beautiful film", "a success" and that "Johnny Depp is magnificent in it".


== References ==


== External links ==
Jeanne du Barry at IMDb