ACID, THE NEW FILM BY JUST PHILIPPOT WITH GUILLAUME CANET, IN MIDNIGHT SCREENING AT CANNES
Acide, le nouveau film de Just Philippot avec Guillaume Canet, sort en septembre 2023

Published by Julie M., Laura B. · Published on April 14, 2023 at 05:34 p.m.
After "La Nuée", the director Just Philippot releases his second film, "Acide". A fantastic film that will be released on September 20, 2023 and in which Guillaume Canet plays.

Filmmaker Just Philippot impressed us with his first feature film, the fantasy film La Nuée, released in June 2021. For his second film, Acide, scheduled to be released on September 20, 2023, and presented in the Midnight Screening at the Cannes Film Festival 2023, Just Philippot has offered the services of Guillaume Canet, as an actor.

As in the previous film, La Nuée, Acide is, once again, a fantastic, dramatic film about nature andclimate change. A film created and produced in a"responsible production" approach. Indeed, what distinguishes Acid from other films is its commitment to responsible production. The film was produced by Bonne Pioche, which decided to go beyond the limits of eco-tourism to adopt a global approach to the socio-environmental transition.

Acide is the first film to have tested the innovative digital tool Secoset®, developed by Secoya. Structured around eight themes (carbon footprint, responsible purchasing, food, energy, mobility, societal approach, waste and communication), this tool has enabled Bonne Pioche and Pathé to fully engage in the socio-environmental transition of the audiovisual sector.

Just Philippot directs Guillaume Canet in Acide, who earlier this year, on February 1, released his film Asterix and Obelix: The Middle Kingdom, in which he plays Asterix. Guillaume Canet shares the poster ofAcid with Laetitia Dosch (seen this year in Irreducible and En même temps) and Patience Munchenbach(Perdrix).

Fifteen-year-old Selma (Patience Munchenbach) grows up between her two estranged parents, Michal (Guillaume Canet) and Élise (Laetitia Dosch). Clouds of devastating acidrain are falling on France. In a world that is about to go under, this fractured family will have to unite to face this climatic catastrophe and try to escape it.
Site powered by Webvision Cloud