AKI KAURISMÄKI'S FALLEN LEAVES SELECTED AT THE CANNES FILM FESTIVAL 2023
Les feuilles mortes (Fallen Leaves) d'Aki Kaurismäki sélectionné au Festival de Cannes 2023

Finnish filmmaker Aki Kaurismäki returns to Cannes with Fallen Leaves, a tragi-comedy in competition.

The Cannes Film Festival 2023 welcomes Fallen Leaves, the new tragi-comedy by Finnish director Aki Kaurismäki, in competition for the prestigious Palme d'Or. This marks Kaurismäki's fifth appearance in the Cannes competition, and he will compete this year alongside other renowned filmmakers such as Ken Loach, Nanni Moretti, Kore-eda Hirokazu, Wim Wenders and Todd Haynes.

Dead Leaves is part of Kaurismäki's proletarian series, alongside Shadows in Paradise, Ariel and The Match Factory. The film stars Alma Pöysti and Jussi Vatanen as two lonely people who meet by chance at night in Helsinki and try to find their first, only and last love.

Inspired by the famous French song "Les feuilles mortes", Les Feuilles Mortes is produced by Aki Kaurismäki for his company Sputnik, and co-produced by Misha Jaari and Mark Lwoff of Bufo, in association with Pandora Film in Germany, with support from the Finnish Film Foundation. The film is distributed worldwide by The Match Factory.


In France, the film will be released on September 20, 2023 and will be distributed by Diaphana Distribution. French moviegoers will be able to discover this poignant work by Aki Kaurismäki a few months after its screening at the Cannes Film Festival.

The Finnish director has described Dead Leaves as a story about "the quest for love, solidarity, hope and respect for others, for nature and for everything that is alive or dead". With his characteristic humor, Kaurismäki also declared: "In the film, I raise my hat too small to my own cinematographic references, Bresson, Ozu and Chaplin, but I alone am responsible for this catastrophic failure!".

The 76th edition of the Cannes Film Festival promises a varied selection, with a mix of newcomers and established names. Kaurismäki's Dead Leaves is the only Nordic film in competition this year, in a selection dominated by American and Italian entries, as artistic director Thierry Frémaux pointed out at his April 13 press conference.

Moviegoers around the world are eagerly awaiting the screening of Dead Leaves at the Cannes Film Festival and hope that the film will be able to seduce the jury presided this year by two-time Palme d'Or winner Ruben Östlund.