
Grace: A journey through Russia with Ilya Povolotsky at Cannes 2023
Grace: A journey through Russia with Ilya Povolotsky at Cannes 2023

Ilya Povolotsky's first feature film, Grace (Blazh), follows a father and daughter across Russia and will be presented at the Cannes Film Festival's Directors' Fortnight 2023.
Grace (Blazh / Grace), the first feature film by Russian director Ilya Povolotsky, will be presented at the Cannes Film Festival 2023 in the Quinzaine des Cinéastes. The drama follows a father and daughter traveling through peripheral Russia on a traveling cinema.
Little information is available about the film at this time, but Ilya Povolotsky's track record as a director is promising. He directed 2019's Forth, an elegantly filmed portrait of a small, eccentric community on the edge of the world, as well as 2018's The Northerners, a cycle of film essays focused on Northern individualism.
To be readThe best movie theaters in ParisCinema : week of May 3, 2023, program and releasesWhat movies will be released in May 2023 in theaters
Born on February 3, 1987, Ilya Povolotsky graduated from the Faculty of Law of the Financial University under the Government of the Russian Federation in 2009 and founded the Blackchamber studio. He is a director of commercials and special projects, winner of international advertising festivals. His short documentary film "Northerners" was officially selected for the Karlovy Vary International Film Festival and for the CameraImage International Film Festival.
The film Grace should offer an interesting perspective on life in peripheral Russia and family relationships, while highlighting the impact of the traveling film culture. With Ilya Povolotsky's talent for filmmaking and sensitivity to marginalized communities, Grace could be a standout work at the Cannes Film Festival's 2023 Filmmakers' Fortnight.
Référencez votre établissement, cliquez iciCommuniquez sur votre évènement, cliquez ici
Practical information
Tags :
festival de cannes, 											spécial tag quinzaine des cinéastes 2023 guide, 											Ilya Povolotsky
