Anurag Kashyap’s ‘Kennedy’ is the only Indian movie to be screened at Cannes 2023
SRISHTI MAGANAPR 14, 2023, 16:28 IST
Instagram/Anurag Kashyap
Director Anurag Kashyap’s Kennedy will be screened in the Midnight Screenings section at the Cannes Film Festival 2023.
Kennedy stars Sunny Leone, Rahul Bhatt and Abhilash Thapliyal.
Cannes reserves midnight slots for interesting genre films or those with challenging content.
Director Anurag Kashyap’s long-running tryst with the international film festival Cannes continues. His movie Kennedy becomes the only Indian film to be selected for a screening at the festival this year.
Cannes announced its official lineup for 2023 on Thursday. Kashyap’s Kennedy is one of the three films to be screened at the festival’s midnight screening section. The festival will take place between May 16-27, 2023.

Midnight Screenings were pioneered by the Sundance Film Festival. Cannes included the section in the early 2010s. As per Cannes, it “reserves a couple of midnight slots for interesting genre films or those with challenging content”.
Most of the details about the movie have been kept under wraps, but Kennedy, which will premiere at the festival, stars Abhilash Thapliyal, Sunny Leone and Rahul Bhatt. Bhatt also starred in Kashyap’s crime-drama Ugly, which also premiered at Cannes. The makers of the movie have not yet announced its release date.
As the news made it to the social media, film celebrities congratulated Kashyap, with ace director Sudhir Mishra tweeting, “You can’t keep Kashyap down for long. Our guy is back.”
Anurag Kashyap’s long tryst with Cannes
Kashyap’s movies have long found a spot at the Cannes Film Festival, starting with his claim-to-fame, the 2012 action-drama Gangs of Wasseypur. It was screened at the 2012 Cannes Directors’ Fortnight, which is an independent section of the Cannes Film Festival.
The following year, his film Ugly was also screened at the Directors’ Fortnight section, where it received a standing ovation. His neo-noir crime drama Raman Raghav 2.0 premiered at the 2016 Cannes Film Festival, again in the Director’s Fortnight section.
Apart from these, Anurag Kashyap was one of the directors of the anthology Bombay Talkies, which also premiered under the Special Screenings section at the 2013 Cannes Film Festival.
Kashyap’s last film was the musical romantic drama Almost Pyaar with DJ Mohabbat, which starred Alaya F and Karan Mehta.