L'ABBÉ PIERRE, UNE VIE DE COMBATS : SELECTION OUT OF COMPETITION AT THE CANNES FILM FESTIVAL 2023
L'Abbé Pierre, une vie de combats : sélection hors compétition au Festival de Cannes 2023
twitter sharing button
print sharing button
facebook sharing button
whatsapp sharing button
pinterest sharing button
linkedin sharing button
reddit sharing button
messenger sharing button
Published by Julie M. · Published on April 25, 2023 at 12:30 p.m.
Discover L'Abbé Pierre, une vie de combats, a film by Frédéric Tellier in selection out of competition at the Cannes Film Festival 2023 and in theaters on November 15, 2023.

L'Abbé Pierre, une vie de combats is a biopic directed by Frédéric Tellier that traces the life of Henri Grouès, better known as Abbé Pierre. The film will be screened in the official selection out of competition at the prestigious Cannes Film Festival 2023.

With a talented cast including Benjamin Lavernhe, Emmanuelle Bercot and Michel Vuillermoz, the film explores the life and struggles of Abbé Pierre, an iconic figure in the defense of the homeless and destitute in France. Born into a bourgeois family, Henri Grouès was a Resistance fighter, a member of parliament, an advocate for the homeless, a revolutionary and an iconoclast. He worked throughout his life to fight against poverty, inequality and injustice.

The synopsis reveals a complex character, tormented by doubt and questioning of his action, but always driven by the will to fight injustice. The film highlights his many lives and struggles, while also revealing a more intimate and unknown facet of the man behind the name of Abbé Pierre.


The out-of-competition selection at the Cannes Film Festival allows the film to be presented in a prestigious context, without competing with other works. This gives the biopic greater visibility and underlines the importance of the subject matter.

Director Frederic Tellier is known for his meticulous work and attention to detail. Although the film has not yet been screened to the general public, expectations are high for the quality of this production. The choice of actors, especially Benjamin Lavernhe in the lead role, adds to the anticipation around this biopic.

All in all, L'Abbé Pierre, une vie de combats promises to be an engaging and moving film that highlights the struggles of an iconic French figure. The out-of-competition screening at the 2023 Cannes Film Festival attests to the interest in this feature film. Audiences will be able to discover this film in theaters on November 15, 2023.