Rien à perdre! 2023 Comedy. 

NOTHING TO LOSE: DELPHINE DELOGET UNVEILS HER FIRST FILM WITH VIRGINIE EFIRA AT CANNES 2023
Rien à perdre : Delphine Deloget dévoile son premier film avec Virginie Efira à Cannes 2023

Rien à perdre, the first film directed and written by Delphine Deloget, will be presented in the Un Certain Regard selection at the 2023 Cannes Film Festival. This drama stars Virginie Efira alongside Jean-Luc Vincent and Félix Lefebvre, and tells the story of Sylvie, a mother from Brest who is confronted with the administrative and judicial machine.

Sylvie, played by Virginie Efira, lives in Brest with her two children, Sofiane and Jean-Jacques. The three of them form a close-knit family. One day, while Sylvie is at work and Sofiane is alone at the apartment, the latter is injured. Following a report, Sofiane is placed in a home. Sylvie, with the help of a lawyer and her brothers, is convinced that she will be able to overcome the administrative and legal machinery to get her son back.

Nothing to Lose tackles sensitive and current subjects such as child protection and the struggle against adversity in the face of a sometimes dehumanizing system. The script, written by Delphine Deloget herself, promises to be moving and touching, while highlighting the strength and determination of a mother ready to do anything for her children.


As Delphine Deloget's first film, Nothing to Lose is arousing the curiosity of moviegoers and film professionals alike. It will be interesting to follow the feedback from critics and audiences when the film is screened in Cannes. The success of this drama could propel Delphine Deloget's career and establish her reputation as a talented director and screenwriter.

In summary, Delphine Deloget's Nothing to Lose is a highly anticipated film in the Un Certain Regard selection at the 2023 Cannes Film Festival. Starring Virginie Efira, Jean-Luc Vincent and Félix Lefebvre, the film deals with strong themes and promises to move audiences. Delphine Deloget's first feature film is undoubtedly one of the films not to be missed at this edition of the festival.