Films Boutique Boards Cannes Pics 'Terrestrial Verses,' 'Buriti Flower'

Films Boutique, the Berlin-based company behind “Pacifiction” and “The Burdened,” has come on board three international movies slated for the Cannes Film Festival. These include a pair of films set for Cannes’ Un Certain Regard, “Terrestrial Verses” and “The Buriti Flower,” as well as “Tiger Stripes” which will bow at Critics’ Week.
“Terrestrial Verses,” directed by Alireza Khatami and Ali Asgari, is the sole Iranian film premiering in the Official Selection. The movie marks the first collaboration between these two critically acclaimed directors.
Khatami previously wrote and directed “Oblivion Verses” which won best screenplay and the Fipresci prizes at Venice in 2017. Asgari, meanwhile, previously directed “Until Tomorrow” which premiered at Berlin last year, and presented two shorts at Cannes, “More Than Two Hours” in 2013 et “Il Silenzio” in 2016.
While the plot remains under wrap, the film’s title is a reference to a poet by famed Iranian Poet Forugh Farrokhzad.
Gabor Greiner, Films Boutique’s COO, said “‘Terrestrial Verses’ is one of the strongest films we have seen this year.”
“The Buriti Flower,” is a timely Brazilian movie co-directed by João Salaviza and Renée Nader Messora. The movie reteams Salaviza and Messora whose 2018 movie “The Dead and The Others” won the Jury Special Award at Un Certain Regard. “The Buriti Flower” also portrays the Krahô indigenous community featured in “The Dead and The Others.”
Set in the heard of the Brazilian forest and lensed in 16mm, the movie tells three periods of the history of indigenous people through the eyes of a young girl, Patpro. The Krahô community never stop inventing new forms of resistance and continue being guided by their ancestral rites, as well as their love of nature, in spite of being being tirelessly persecuted.
“’The Buriti Flower’ is a hopeful story especially in the context of Brazilian recent history, where the indigenous communities are gaining visibility as well as political representation,” said Jean-Christophe Simon at Films Boutique, adding that it’s a “also a very important film showing the ongoing fight to preserve the nature and the rainforest”.
The film is coming out at an important time since Brazil’s new president, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, has appointed indigenous leader Sonia Guajajara (who also appears in the film) as the first minister of the newly created ministry of indigenous affairs.
“The Buriti Flower” will be released by Ad Vitam in France, Embaúba Filmes in Brazil, and in Portugal by Desforra Apache. The movie was produced by Karõ Filmes in Portugal and Entre Filmes in Brazil.
